

the error is an HTTP Status Code error and it’s happening at the gateway. The gateway can be a **service/application** that is working and **receiving requests from Nginx** web server.

### How you might see the 502 Bad Gateway error

Different websites may customize the 502 bad gateway error message. Here are the most common 502 error messages:

* “502 Bad Gateway”
* “502 Bad Gateway NGINX”
* “502 Service Temporarily Overloaded”
* “502 Proxy Error”
* “Error 502”
* “HTTP Error 502 – Bad Gateway”
* “HTTP 502”


### When you will find 502 Bad Gateway error and solutions for it

##### :arrow_forward: Nginx running as proxy for Apache web server 

- in this case, the gateway is Apache. When you use Nginx as proxy for Apache, if apache dies or it’s not well configured, it can cause this 502 Bad Gateway error. How to fix it? Most of the times, restarting apache web server will get rid of this, but you must check the log files to know why exactly this was caused.

#####  :arrow_forward: Nginx running with PHP-FPM daemon 

same as Apache example, let’s imagine your php daemon stop working, or get’s overloaded by requests, it will not work properly and the all the php requests from nginx would not be served, so, a 502 Bad Gateway error will appear. How to fix it? 

- First of all, make sure that you have installed php-fpm and ensure your php-fpm service is listening according to what you’ve configured in nginx, it can be either this two options:

```

Edit www.conf file (in CentOS it is located at /etc/php-fpm.d/www.conf) and try with one of this two options:


listen = /var/run/php5-fpm.sock
or

listen = 127.0.0.1:9000
```

After that, just restart the php-fpm service.. 

- then check the file permissions of the file php*-fpm.sock. If the that file has the owner and group different from the nginx owner and group, it will cause an error (the error on nginx error log is something like that: crit] 2963#0: *138 connect() to unix:/tmp/php5-fpm.sock failed (13: Permission denied) while connecting to upstream). To fix it:

```

1) Make sure your virtual hosts nginx (.conf) files are using fastcgi_pass unix:/tmp/php5-fpm.sock; at the php-fpm configuration.

2) Edit nginx.conf file and make sure this variable is as follow:

user  nginx;

3) Edit /etc/php-fpm.d/www.conf file and set this variables as you see below:

listen = /tmp/php5-fpm.sock
listen.owner = nginx
listen.group = nginx

4) Reload your services:

service nginx reload
service php-fpm reload
```

- Find out in the php-fpm logs file what is the problem.

##### :arrow_forward: Nginx running with other services as gateway 

try restarting the other service behind nginx and explore the logs to find the reason why it happened.

##### :arrow_forward: Bad buffering/timeout configuration.


Increase buffer and timeouts inside http block:

```
http {
...
fastcgi_buffers 8 16k;
fastcgi_buffer_size 32k;
fastcgi_connect_timeout 300;
fastcgi_send_timeout 300;
fastcgi_read_timeout 300;
...
}
```

##### :arrow_forward: APC caching causing segmentation fault

apc can cause this kind of issues under particular enviroments causing segmentation faults. Disable APC Cache if used, instead try Xcache.


##### :arrow_forward: low memory on the os

Try to find process that are consuming memory and try to free more memory.

use these commands to spot memory consuption:

```
free -m
ps aux --sort -rss
}
```


# Resources

* [Bad gateway errors using Nginx](https://www.scalescale.com/tips/nginx/502-bad-gateway-error-using-nginx/)
* [php5-fpm.sock failed (13: Permission denied) error](https://www.scalescale.com/tips/nginx/php5-fpm-sock-failed-13-permission-denied-error/)



